When you're working with many AWS services,
CloudWatch alarms may be created for you.
A great example is the auto scaling group we configured. With
target tracking enabled, AWS created two CloudWatch alarms, one
to scale up and one to scale down.
But sometimes there are specific things we care about that we want to
manually create CloudWatch alarms for. In that case,
there are hundreds of different metrics for different services that
CloudWatch lets us set alarms on. In this clip, we're going to set an
alarm on our load balancer to send a notification to our SNS topic if
the healthy hosts fall below 1.
This basically means if something happens to our
application instance and it stops responding,
we should get a text message.
All of these details will be wrapped up in a single CloudWatch alarm.
We'll create this alarm using the create‑cloudwatch‑alarm.js file in
the scripts\ module_09 folder. You can probably get a hint that this
function will need a lot of params.
We'll start by filling in these TODOs for variables.
Go ahead and add your region on line 4,
then online 9 we need that SNS topicArn again.
I'm thinking that by now you might not have access to it
on the command line anymore, so I'll show you where you
can find it in the AWS console.
Go to your web browser and the AWS console, then to the SNS dashboard.
Click on the Topics menu option on the left.
Then you should see your topic there with the ARN in the right‑hand column.
Copy that value and then paste it in the string on line 9.
Next,
we need to get a part of the Target Group ARN and Load Balancer group ARN
that we created towards the beginning of this course.
Head back to the AWS console and go to the EC2 dashboard this
time. In the left‑hand menu at the bottom, select Target Groups.
Select the target group named hamsterTG,
and then we'll select a part of the ARN. Select from
targetgroup/hamsterTG all the way to the end.
This is all that CloudWatch will use. Now, switch back to your
code and paste that in the string on line 10.
We've got one more, and that's for the load balancer.
Back in the EC2 dashboard, select the Load Balancers menu option.
Select the entry named hamsterELB.
In the ARN value, select everything from app/hamsterELB to the end and copy it.
Then back in your code paste that value in the string on line 9.
Now that we have all those values completed,
we can get started on implementing the create‑cloudwatch‑alarm function.
First, create the params const object.
We've got quite a few parameters here in no particular order.
First add the property AlarmName, which can have the
value of the alarmName function argument.
This will be the alarm's identifier in CloudWatch.
The next property is ComparisonOperator, and the value
will be the string LessThanThreshold.
This is the check the alarm will do.
We want it to see when the healthy hosts for the
load balancer are less than one.
That's why we chose LessThanThreshold here,
as opposed to GreaterThanThreshold. We'll define the threshold below.
Next, add the property EvaluationPeriods and give it the value of 1.
This lets you define how many periods should the value be
less than the threshold. In our case,
we want to know immediately, so we'll set this to 1.
The next property is MetricName, which we'll assign
to the string HealthyHostCount.
There are tons of these metrics,
but this one gives us the correct analytics for the load balancer
hosts. The next property namespace refers to the AWS service that
the metric is a part of. The value for this is a string with the
value AWS/ApplicationELB.
The next property is Period, which works with the
above EvaluationPeriods property.
This is how long a period should be defined as in your alarm.
The typical length is 5 minutes, but I prefer 1 minute for this.
This value should be in seconds, so enter the number 60.
Next is the Threshold property.
In our case,
this is the number of healthy hosts that are okay. We'll enter 1 here
since we want the alarm to cry if it's less than 1. This property is
directly tied to the ComparisonOperator above.
You'll notice it says LessThanThreshold, and this is the Threshold property.
The next property is AlarmActions, and it has a value of an array.
This will basically be the actions the alarm takes when it's triggered.
Enter the topicArn function argument here.
The fact that this is an SNS topic tells the alarm all it needs to know,
and it will publish an alarm to the notification topic.
The next property is Dimensions with the value of an array.
This is where you specify exactly which resources the alarm should
gather metrics from. For HealthyHost, we'll need to enter both the
target group and load balancer resources here.
Create an object,
then add the property Name with the value of TargetGroup as a string.
The other property of this object is Value with the
value as the tg function argument.
Now we'll make another object in this array. The Name property and this
one will be LoadBalancer, and the Value property will be the lb
function argument. Now outside the Dimensions array, add the Statistic
property and give it the value of Average. Other possible options here
are Minimum, Maximum, Sum, and SampleCount. Minimum would probably also
work for our purposes here. And the final property is TreatMissingData.
This property defines what the alarm should do if it is missing appropriate
metric data. We'll add the string breaching here as the value.
This means that if there is missing data, it should trigger the alarm.
Other possible options are ignore, not breaching or missing.
The reason we're putting breaching here is because if you reach 0 healthy hosts
on your load balancer, instead of the metric coming in as 0,
it comes in as missing.
So for us, a missing value here basically equals 0,
thus we want the alarm to fire.
Now we can create the alarm, so inside the function call the
cw.putMetricAlarm function, passing in params as the first argument and a
callback function with err and data arguments as the second.
If there's an err object, then call reject and pass it in.
Otherwise, call resolve with the data argument,
and that is all we'll need to create our alarm.
Let's run the file by switching over to your command line and
executing node create‑cloudwatch‑alarm.js.
You should get some output when it's complete, and now your
CloudWatch alarm is configured to alert your hamster topic whenever your load balancer goes below one healthy host.